Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Find answers to frequently asked questions about Razorpay Payments.
Try
.Watch Out!
This is a real transaction. The money will be deducted from your account when you complete the transaction. The money will be auto-refunded to your account in 4-5 days.
Under the standard plan designed for small and medium enterprises, Razorpay charges 2% per transaction. Razorpay also offers an enterprise plan designed for large volumes, which gives you the best prices possible for your business. Know more about
.No, GST is not mandatory if your business does not have an annual turnover of over ₹20 lakhs. However, if you do not provide your GST details, you would not be able to claim TDS at the time of filing your tax returns.
18% GST is charged on the fee deducted for all payment methods except domestic card transactions of amount < = ₹ 2,000. You can check the
from the Reports section of your Dashboard to understand GST charged.Razorpay offers a sandbox environment where you can test integrations before going live. To test your integration,
in test mode and implement them in your code. Test mode features a mock bank page with Success and Failure buttons to replicate the live payment experience. No money is deducted as these are simulated transactions.6. Do you have any test cards that we can use to check our website or mobile app integration with Razorpay Payment Gateway?
You can use the following test card details to inspect the payment flow with the available payment methods. Use any CVV and any future date as the expiry date.
- Mastercard: 5104015555555558 / 5104060000000008
- Visa: 4386289407660153
- Subscription: 5104015555555558
- International MasterCard: 5555555555554444 / 5105105105105100
- International Visa: 401288888881881 / 4000184186218826
- AMEX: 379862000000006
Standard capture is an authorisation followed by a delayed
capture of the payment. In this scenario, if a customer makes a payment, the amount is deducted from the customer's bank account by Razorpay. The authorised amount is settled to your account only after you initiate a capture
request.
When a customer makes a payment, it goes to the authorized
state. You need to capture the payments to get them settled to your account. Auto-capture enables the payments to be captured automatically as soon as they are authorized
. Payments that are authorized
, but not captured
are automatically refunded to the customers in 5 days.
To set up automatic capture of payments, set up
You can manually capture payments:
You need to capture the payments to get them settled to your account. Payments that areauthorized
, but notcaptured
are automatically refunded to the customers in 5 days.
Yes, you can accept international payments using Razorpay Payment Gateway. Know more about
.11. How are payments made by my customers settled to my account? Is any action required from my end?
No action is required from your end for the settlements. The captured payments are settled automatically to your account as per your settlement cycle. Know more about
.12. A payment is marked as 'failed' on my Dashboard but money is debited from the customer’s account. What do I do?
A payment is said to be in the 'failed' state when we do not receive a successful callback message on the transaction from the issuing bank. If the customer’s account is debited and we do not receive a successful callback, the amount will be auto-refunded by the customer’s issuing bank in 7-10 working days.
In case of a failed payment, we verify the status with the bank at regular intervals. If there is a change in status, the payment moves to the authorized
state, and a notification is sent to you and the customer.
In such scenarios, you can choose to do any one of the following:
- Provide services: Capture the payment and provide the service/good as was promised earlier to the customer.
- Refund the transaction: If you are not able to provide service to the customer as per the agreed terms (Such as, time of delivery, cost of purchase or inventory issues), refund the payment to the customer.
Late authorisation is a situation that arises when a payment is interrupted by external factors such as network issues or technical errors at customer's or bank's end. In such cases, funds may or may not get debited from the customer's bank account and Razorpay does not receive a payment status from the bank. Know more about
.Facing issues with your checkout? Here are possible reasons:
- Checkout not loading:
- Check for any incorrect parameters in the payload. See.
- Ensure that the API key in use is valid, non-expired and most recently generated one. See .
- Delay in payment processing on Checkout: The delay in payment confirmation, often referred to as 'Late Auth,' is a common issue within the payments ecosystem. Know more about .
- Payment failed, but debited from customer: If the payment is debited from the customer but does not reflect on the dashboard, the amount will be refunded within 3-7 business days.
Was this page helpful?
ON THIS PAGE